>> Marcy Sutton Todd: So
for this exercise,
we are going to announce when
we add things to the cart.
So when you click this button,
Add to Cart,
we're gonna show a little
badge up here in the cart.
I don't wanna move the focus up
there cuz the person might be,
maybe they wanna add
two things to the cart.
Maybe they wanna do something else.
Well, I guess that's
a design consideration of,
should we move focus to the cart or not.
In this case, I'm gonna say we're not.
And instead, we are going to announce
that there is a live region.
Or using a live region,
we are going to announce that there's
a certain number of products.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: So for
this one, let's code it together.
Sound good?
And then we'll take a break.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Okay, so for
this we are in the Exercise 4.
We have similar to the last exercise.
The one we're viewing is the one that
doesn't have this supported in it yet.
So if I click this button,
I don't see anything.
I think my button might
not even be a real button.
But what I want to have happen is there
will be a little badge that shows up.
So we need some state that is
going to show that number.
And then we're gonna write an ARIA
live region that will just
announce when that text is appended.
And we can always look at
the more completed example.
So I'm gonna come over here to our code.
That stuff is all, I think for
the most part in the product details.
So our button, I was right, it is not
a real button, that was something else.
So this is interesting.
I don't think acts complained
about this button or
maybe the version of that
page had real buttons in it.
But these should be buttons, not divs.
I don't think acts will complain at you
if you have a click event on a div,
cuz there are valid use cases for
click events on divs, but
it's also a big accessibility issue.
So now this is a real button.
It has a click event on it with
a callback function called onAddToCart.
So this product detail page,
it knows which product we're looking at.
So it's gonna pass its product data
object back up to the parent to say,
hey, this is the one that we're
gonna pass up to the shopping
cart cuz the shopping cart is
outside of the scope of this.
So we have to do a little bit of
passing around of state to show that.
And there's definitely more than
one way you could do this for
this sort of prototyped product page,
that's how we're gonna handle it.
So onAddToCart,
let's go trace the trail of where that is.
So if I go up to the top of the page,
product details gets
that callback function.
So product details is added
here in the product page.
So that's where this onAddCart callback
function, then on the parent side,
I can handle what's in the shopping cart.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: So we have state
tracking the shopping cart items.
We have that callback function that will
say, all right, go add this to our cart.
And I don't think it's actually
doing anything right now.
So what I'm gonna do is make another
function call onAddToCart and
I'm gonna update the state
in that function.
Let's call it onAddToCart.
It's gonna take in a product
that is going to want a type.
>> Speaker 2: You're missing
the right arrow function.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Yeah, thank you.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Okay, so in here,
we're gonna say UpdateShoppingCartItems.
I am going to combine.
What was potentially in
the shopping cart already,
like if I was on another product page or
something, I have to, yeah, I'm not,
this is definitely not
a data architecture course.
[LAUGH] So
this is what we're doing right now.
Okay, we'll say items.
Let's say shoppingCartItems and
the new product.
We're gonna combine those
using the spread operator, and
then we will update our shopping cart
state with that combined array of items.
So there's an array of objects here.
So onAddToCart now has
updated those items.
Do that stuff, so
the shoppingCartItems are actually already
being passed in to our ProductHeader.
We just weren't really doing
anything to update it.
So I'm gonna save that.
Let's go over to the ProductHeader.
And our Shopping Cart icon,
I'm going to maybe collapse
our Banner component.
So here's our shopping cart.
So I've got shoppingCartItems,
so if I have shoppingCartItems and
just to be extra careful, I'm gonna say
if the length is more than 0, then,
I could output a little badge icon.
So,
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: I think I already
have the CSS for that.
And that will be our little
circle with the number up there.
So just to make sure that I
have the CSS for that in here,
we have a CSS class,
I'm just gonna go and check.
I always confuse these two,
okay, custom.css.
Okay, so we have a badge here,
it's got a red background-color.
It's like a little circle
with some text in it.
So that's in there.
I did bail out of tailwind for this
example cuz it was not working for me for
some reason.
So we're getting the job
done with CSS classes.
So we've got a little badge that will
output if there's more than zero items.
It's like that message notification
that won't ever go away otherwise, so
we only wanna show it if there's
actually something in it.
So then we need to say,
shoppingCartItems.length,
that will show us the number.
And for our live region, we want to say,
hey, there's items in there.
Put our live region right
up here in the header.
If you had live regions throughout your
product or throughout your web app,
you might wanna centralize them somehow.
But for this kind of first iteration,
I'm just gonna create it right here
in the element, or in the header.
So I'm gonna make this a div.
I'm gonna say div role=status.
That will create our live region.
I am going to make it visually hidden
with the tailwind sr=only class.
And we could just say
shoppingCartItems.length,
like there are a certain
number of items in your cart.
So I could say,
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Let's see.
I actually wanna abstract this into
a state variable, so I'm gonna say.
Let's see, regionAnnouncement or
cartAnnouncement,
I think that's what I called it,
cartAnnouncementMessage.
So I'm gonna go to find that
up here using React state,
I could say, cartAnnouncementMessage
setCartAnnouncementMessage.
And I'll say = useState,
that will be a string.
And I'll start it off as an empty string.
So the element will be there, but
it won't have any content in it, so
nothing will be read aloud.
And then when we get shopping cart
items I can do things like manipulate
what that text looks like.
I can say, does it have item or
items in it?
I could have done that in line in the JSX,
it just felt like a little too much
logic to put down there in my markup.
So I'm gonna do, I guess,
pick your poison, right?
I'm gonna do useEffect instead.
So when we get that card
announcement message, or
sorry the shopping cart items,
I'm gonna create a side effect of
generating a live region
announcement from it.
So in my dependency array,
I'm gonna say shoppingCartItems,
so this way I can safely manipulate,
I can take that data,
manipulate it into the string I want, and
I can call setCardAnnouncementMessage.
It will then create this other
state variable that I need to use.
So let's say, so item or items, my gosh,
naming things is always the hardest,
right?
So,
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: So
if shoppingCartItems.length, if it === 1,
I could say you have one item in your
cart, otherwise, it'll be items.
If it's zero items,
we aren't going to see it.
But if it's two or more, we'll see items.
So then,
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Get my ternary
operator here.
So I could say setCartAnnouncementMessage,
I'm gonna make a template literal and
say there are,
shoppingCartItems.length,
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: And
then our item or items in your cart.
So that should be there
are the number of items in your cart.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: I could wrap this in
logic if I really wanted to be extra safe
by saying, if shoppingCartItems,
probably don't need to do that.
But if the length is greater than 0,
then run this code.
I don't think it'll matter, but
if you want to be extra type safe or
something, that should give us a string.
Let's go see what happened.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: So,
we will add to the cart,
shopping cart items is not iterable,
I saw this before.
So I think my type script any,
there it is,
so this actually should be product.
That's a type that this file doesn't know
about, so I'm going to go import the type.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Product from,
where are those types?
Types, okay, seems to be cool with that.
Okay, so now it should be an iterable,
I thought it would be before but
it was mad, big mad.
Still not, okay, so for
time purposes, yes.
>> Speaker 3: I was gonna say,
I think I know the problem like further
upstream in the parent component.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 3: I think the state
was initialized as null.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Okay.
Yes, it was.
And it's in here too.
So product,
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Yeah,
it's an array of products and
I can initialize it as an empty array.
Thank you.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Save
us a little bit of time.
Now it is mad.
If shoppingCartItems,
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: And.
It's interesting that it complained
in the browser but not in line.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Okay,
let's see if that worked.
No, okay, fun.
It's only mad when I click that button, so
I'm gonna open the full
page in another tab.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: That one worked.
Okay, so we have the badge there.
I'm not really sure what's going on,
but we'll figure it out.
Okay, so we have a badge,
woo-hoo, it worked.
But what did that live region do?
That's the bigger question, because
that's what we're really focused on,
it kinda motivated the thought process of,
I click here,
something else is happening on the screen.
So, we're gonna fire up Voiceover and
see if it worked.
So function command F5.
>> Speaker 4: Announcements, banner,
announcements, list 2 items, link,
gear gifts for everyone on your list,
shop our gift guide.
Next slide.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: We're
going to fix it that carousel
next-
>> Speaker 4: Button-
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Next exercise.
>> Speaker 4: You
are currently on the button.
To click this button,
press add to cart, button, main,
2 items in your shopping cart.
You are currently on a button to
click this button, press Control,
Option, Space,
three items in your shopping cart.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: So see how it waited
until everything else was done reading?
Might be fine.
I mean, you start to get into
user research territory.
I think it's probably fine to
just leave it that way but for
some, if you're working on
a design system or something,
some of these patterns would really
benefit from testing with users.
And these are compound components,
so some of these flows and
patterns, we can make a best guess, but
I just wanna say I'm bringing my own
developer bias to this solution.
So, ask people, even if you can just,
I don't know, pay somebody to consult for
an hour to explain the thing they
might even give you some ideas,
but, yeah so, it worked though.
We've got three items in our shopping
cart and I'm still in my navigating,
going through the page.
My focus is still on the button.
So that's how live regions work.
They're really awesome.
Let's see what it looks like
if we make it assertive,
just since we're talking about whether
to interrupt or not, let's try that.
So in this solution we
have rule of status,
if I say rule of alert,
that will interrupt.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: I am very curious
what I messed up on that other page.
So let's fire Voiceover back up.
>> Speaker 4: Announcements.
Banner, announcements, list 2 items, link,
Gear Gifts for Everyone on Your List,
Shop, Add to Cart, button, main,
4 items in your shopping cart.
You are currently on a button.
To click this button.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: So
assertive might be better, I'm not sure.
Did you hear the little blink?
Like it makes a little interrupt noise.
So I guess to back to that question
of whether you should play a noise,
there already is a noise [LAUGH] for
the assertive alerts.
Yeah, assertive might be okay,
I guess you have to think about
what other announcements could.
Possibly be running.
It could be okay.
It could be annoying.
I'm not really sure.
>> Speaker 4: Six items
in your shopping cart.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: But I think for
this type of thing, I guess assertive,
when I think through the kind
of user impact of it,
you want to make sure
that the button worked.
And I think now that I'm just
kind of talking out loud,
I think that might be the right choice
because the consequence is that if
you don't immediately know that it worked,
you might keep clicking.
And then as a blind screen reader user,
then how do you go remove
it from your cart?
Then that's a whole other can of worms,
then you have to go to another
page you have to do all the stuff.
So I think assertive is my final answer.
[LAUGH] Was there a question?
>> Speaker 5: Does it make
sense to set roll alert for
any kind of error notifications
that could pop up on the site.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Potentially,
so this is an area we
wanna definitely verify that.
Anytime we're talking about live regions,
I'm just like,
hold the phone, [LAUGH] Because
we wanna be careful with them.
As I mentioned, they can be super
annoying, like us screen reader users,
and many people will say
that they're annoying.
So I think for error validation,
like form validation,
I do think it's appropriate.
You can use aria-invalid for
actual form validation and
send focus to the errors,
like say in a form context.
There's some form fields
that you missed or
aren't filled in correctly or something.
And with client-side validation,
when you hit submit,
you're doing the action
of clicking a button.
So it's appropriate to move focus to
the first error message, I think.
So a live region may or
may not be that useful in that context,
where they're useful is where
you're not going to move focus.
If you did have some sort of
an alert error banner at the top,
I guess I just said the word alert.
That does sound like
aria-live region situation.
I think we want to get careful so
that it's not repeatedly announcing,
[LAUGH] Ten minutes ago,
five minutes ago, error.
Sounds annoying because it would be.
So we wanna be careful that
we're not just making annoying
announcements that we don't realize or
pummeling our users.
Because if you don't have the screen
reader running, you probably have no idea.
So if it's re-rendering automatically or
something,
that's what we wanna be careful about.
I saw one technique for
live regions that makes me think of,
I think this was preact.
But their solution to
client-side routing and
screen reader announcements was to wrap
the main content in a live region,
so anytime that updated it
would just announce it.
Seemed kinda innovative at the time,
but now that I'm thinking about,
like I just worked on a page that had
some sort of a reduce effect run Amok.
And it was just re-rendering.
And the only way I knew was that
the console was just adding,
adding the terminal was spinning.
I think that page would be re-rendering.
So if it had a live region on it
would just be constantly announcing.
So I mean, that's a like deeper bug than
just the live region, but might kind
of illustrate like when it's re-rendering
the screen reader might pick it up.
I don't know you have to test it,
because there are some other settings that
we didn't actually talk about
if I go back to live regions.
There are, do I have any here?
Yep, aria-atomic and aria-relevant.
Theoretically will change whether
it will announce additions or
removals like how granular
is the live region?
It hasn't been super reliable
across platform, but
hopefully with a live region,
if it literally is re-rendering.
The same things over and over again, it
shouldn't just announce it over and over.
But again, it's like this is an area that
we do wanna test in a screen reader.
So hopefully, you see some motivation to
add that in your workflow if you
have a use case for live regions.
And we do wanna see if I can
fix our TypeScript error.
So that one was in product header.
You know what I'm gonna do is-
>> Speaker 5: Someone said,
I think it might have to do with
the default value, maybe null.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Yeah,
we changed that, I thought.
>> Speaker 5: Sorry.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: So
shopping cart items, we have an array.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Array of products.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Wait,
maybe I didn't update that page.
I think I might have fixed the wrong one.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Maybe that was it.
I swear I edited that in the right place.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: I remember doing it,
that's the problem with having
multiple versions of the same thing.
Well, it worked, but my styling is off.
I'm gonna call that a win.
>> Speaker 5: [LAUGH]
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: [LAUGH] So yeah,
it's like inception with a demo inside of
another React, the rest of the React site.
So some styling, but at least the bones
are there, the functionality works.
And the live region should announce there.
So one thing I didn't show you is that you
can inspect just like any other element
with a live region.
So I guess it would be
up here in the header.
Just to make sure it rendered,
sometimes we're using React
where you only output an element
if a certain condition is true.
Sometimes you'll be like, well,
why didn't that element render?
It could be something with your
state variables or something, so
you can always go to the dev tools and
see, like, it's not announcing.
Is that for some other reason, or
is it because my live region didn't
actually end up in the rendered document?
So it's there.
If it doesn't announce, even though
you see it in there, it might be for
some other reason.
Like maybe display none or I'm not sure,
maybe the messages aren't making it
to the right element or something.